Updated: November 30, 2020 3:45 AM

STORM ALERT WEATHER DAY

We are looking at the first snowfall of the season for a lot of folks today.
Here is how it will play out...

TEMPERATURE: We will be in the upper 30s and low 40s until about 11am and then
temps will start falling through the afternoon. By 3pm we will be at 39 in
Chattanooga, and down to about 37 by 6pm. Temps will continue falling through
the night into the mid to upper 20s by early Tuesday morning.

PRECIPITATION: This morning we will get primarily light rain showers until no
later than 8am. Some of that MAY turn to a light wintry mix on the plateau. From
8am-about noon we will be overcast, but there will be a lull in the action with
no precipitation. Starting at about 11:30 we will start seeing a light wintry
mix on the Cumberland Plateau. As we move through the early afternoon that will
change to light snow showers as temps fall. At about 2pm we will start to see
some light snow showers in the Blue Ridge Mountains. It will still be snowing
lightly on the Plateau. After 8pm the snow on the plateau will end, but continue
on the Blue Ridge. Around midnight all precipitation will have ended, and the
focus will begin to change to the cold.

SNOWFALL AMOUNTS: There is a Winter Weather Advisory for Bledsoe and Van Buren
Counties until 7am Tuesday. We will see up to 3" of snow accumulating there.
Counties south on the plateau will get anywhere from .5"-1.5"". In the
mountains, we could get 1.5"-2.5" from Ellijay to Murphy. Most other folks will
get about .5" in the mountains. In the valley and NW Georgia we will get only
flurries with little to no accumulation other than maybe a light dusting on
grassy surfaces. That would be the exception rather than the rule, however.

WIND: I expect it to be a blustery day with winds coming from the northwest at
10-20 mph with higher wind gusts. It will remain breezy into the late night with
winds of 10-15 mph from the northwest.

Make sure to download the WRCB weather app. David Karnes