Updated: February 14, 2021 8:15 AM

9AM UPDATE:

Valentine's Day will be another cool and cloudy day. Highs will be around 43.
The farther to the east you are, the warmer your temperatures. The farther to
the west, the colder, staying in the 30s. Today will mainly be dry with a slim
chance for a spotty sprinkle.

Then, we enter our active weather period. From about midnight to 7am on Monday,
scattered light rain showers will move across our area. Temperatures will be
below freezing on the plateau, so it'll be freezing rain there. Ice
accumulations at 0.1" or less, causing slick roads, especially overpasses and
bridges.

There will be a slight lull period, and then a more significant system will
affect Monday afternoon through night. The peak timing looks to be noon to 8pm. 
FORECAST CHANGE: The newest data are indicating slightly warmer temperatures
even for the Cumberland Plateau, so there will be times of rain for everyone.
This is good news as ice and snow accumulations have decreased.

 Generally, from Chattanooga and eastward, this will be a rain event only with a
brief period for changeover to sleet and few flurries for the higher elevations
with no accumulations. Bledsoe, Sequatchie, and Marion Counties will have mostly
rain with times of freezing rain and sleet, especially west of the Sequatchie
Valley. Ice accumulations at 0.1" or less and a dusting of snow. Grundy and Van
Buren in TN and Jackson and DeKalb in AL will have all precipitation types in
play. These counties are under a Winter Storm Warning. Grundy County will be the
most likely affected one with 0.1-0.25" of ice and about 1" of snow. The highest
totals will be in the northwest part of the county. 

The amounts for snow and ice are trending down, but they could change again as
our western counties are on the border with freezing temperatures. Please, stay
weather aware and check back for updates.

IMPACTS:Travel will be hazardous Monday through the first part of Tuesday west
of Chattanooga, especially in Grundy County. Isolated power outages will be
possible with ice bringing down tree limbs. Please, take today to prepare. If
you have plans to drive to Nashville on Monday, the roads conditions will be
bad.

The system will fade out Monday night, and then clouds will slowly decrease on
Tuesday.