Updated: February 14, 2021 4:46 AM

Happy Valentine's Day! Today will be another cool and cloudy day. Highs will be
around 43. The farther to the east you are, the warmer your temperatures. The
farther to the west, the colder, staying in the 30s. Today will mainly be dry
with a slim chance for a spotty sprinkle this evening.

Then, we enter our active weather period. From about midnight to 7am on Monday,
scattered light rain showers will move across our area. Temperatures will be
below freezing on the plateau, so it'll be freezing rain there. Ice
accumulations at 0.1" or less, causing slick roads, especially overpasses and
bridges.

There will be a slight lull period, and then a more significant system will
affect Monday afternoon through night. The peak timing looks to be noon to 8pm.
Generally, from Chattanooga and eastward, this will be a rain event with a brief
window for changeover to sleet and few flurries Monday night with no
accumulations. Cumberland Plateau counties (Bledsoe, Sequatchie, Grundy, Marion,
Jackson, Van Buren - even higher elevation portions of DeKalb, Dade, and Rhea
Counties) need to pay attention. These counties are right on the transition line
of precipitation type with this event, so snow and ice totals may still go up or
down. A quick transition from rain to freezing rain to sleet to snow is
expected. Additional ice accumulations around 0.1" are possible Monday
afternoon, followed by snow. Depending on temperatures, most in the above
counties should have a dusting to 1" of snow. Grundy County will be on the
higher end with up to 2", possibly more in the far western portions. It is
important to check back for updates.

Travel will be hazardous during this time through the first part of Tuesday.
Isolated power outages will be possible with ice bringing down tree limbs.
Please, take today to prepare. If you have plans to drive to Nashville on
Monday, the roads conditions will be bad.

The system will fade out Monday night, and then clouds will slowly decrease on
Tuesday.