Updated: February 14, 2021 2:58 PM

This Valentine's evening will be cold and cloudy, so bundle up if you plan to
head out. If you live in Grundy County or another area of the Cumberland
Plateau, this will be your last bit to prepare for winter weather tomorrow.
Travel on Monday will be hazardous.

MONDAY:

2 main waves of weather.

WAVE 1 GENERAL EXPECATIONS:

From about midnight to 7am EST, scattered light rain showers will move across
our area. Temperatures will be below freezing on the plateau, producing freezing
rain. Light ice accumulations at 0.1" or less will possible, causing slick
roads, especially overpasses and bridges. Most likely in Grundy County.

WAVE 2 GENERAL EXPECATIONS:

There will be a slight lull period, and then a more significant system will
affect Monday afternoon through night. PEAK TIMING: 1-9pm EST. 

- Grundy and Van Buren in TN and Jackson and DeKalb in AL will have times of
rain, freezing rain, sleet, and snow. These counties are under a Winter Storm
Warning. Grundy County will be the most likely affected one with 0.1-0.25" of
ice and a dusting to about 1" of snow. The highest totals will be in the
northwest part of the county. These counties are right on the borderline with
freezing temperatures, and so totals for both ice and snow may end up
fluctuating up or down. Please, prepare in case they are higher (e.g. 0.25"+ of
ice, 2" snow). Snow on top of ice will make for very slick roads.

- Bledsoe, Sequatchie, and Marion Counties will have mostly rain with times of
freezing rain and sleet, especially west of the Sequatchie Valley (Fredonia Mtn,
Cagle, Foster Falls). Ice accumulations at 0.1" or less and a dusting of snow. 

- From Chattanooga and eastward, this will be a rain event only. There's a small
chance higher elevations may have a brief window for changeover to sleet and few
flurries with no accumulations.

The system will fade out Monday night, and then clouds will slowly decrease on
Tuesday.

Again, the amounts of snow and ice could change again as our western counties
are on the border with freezing temperatures. Please, stay weather aware and
check back for updates.

IMPACTS:

Travel will be hazardous Monday through the first part of Tuesday west of
Chattanooga, especially in Grundy County. Isolated power outages will be
possible with ice bringing down tree limbs. Please, prepare with flashlights,
batteries, charge cell phones, food, water, and blankets.

Even in areas that don't receive winter precipitation, the road temperatures
will continue to fall through Tuesday morning. Therefore, any standing water may
freeze to form black ice from Dayton Mountain south to Lookout Mountain and
westward.

If you have plans to drive to Nashville on Monday through Tuesday morning, the
roads conditions will be very bad. We advise no travel to Middle or West
Tennessee or NW Alabama.